README.md, before:

# Clock-in kata

[![Build Status](https://github.com/manelfera/clock-in-kata/actions/workflows/node.js.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/manelfera/clock-in-kata/actions/workflows/node.js.yml)

Practice writing (tests with) Promises.

## Contents
1. [Description of the exercise](#description-of-the-exercise)
    * [What is the task?](#what-is-the-task)
    * [Where to start?](#where-to-start)
    * [Next Steps](#next-steps)
    * [Promise test libraries](#promise-test-libraries)
    * [What to do?](#what-to-do)

2. [Solution](#solution)
    * [How to run tests?](#how-to-run-test)


## Description of the exercise
### What is the task?

A time tracking tool, that optionally also accepts GPS positions.
Implement the collecting of all GPS data (using promises) and sending to the server using some asynchronous method, like XHR or fetch (using promises too).
Implement a `clockIn()` function that returns a promise and works as the diagrams below show.

Or in other words: the "boss" can determine
1) if only times shall be tracked, without any GPS position recoding (one async action, the XHR) or
2) GPS can be optionally added to the XHR data to be sent, getting GPS is async too,
3) require GPS data to be sent with the XHR

### Where to start?

- start with case 1), the simplest
- mock/stub the actual XHR and build all cases incl. error cases that might happen when sending an XHR
- mock/stub the GPS-data retreival, implement case 2), watch out there are multiple execution paths
- case 3) incl. retrying should be a piece of cake now
- prevent that any test times out, ensure that all Promise-paths are tested

### Next steps

If you want to get more challenging you can go the next steps like this:
- search for a library that makes testing with Promises easier
- use one or many library to find out which one suites best your needs
- mock that getting retreiving GPS data takes very long, trigger a time out
  and report it to the user
- write tests that verify the timing of the things happening, e.g.
  that the clock-in call NEVER starts before the gps-retreival had
  finished

### Promise test libraries

- [mocha] brings built in promise support
- [chai-as-promised] adds promise support to [chai]
- [hamjest] is an assertion library that can be used with any testing framework/lib, and has nice [promise support][hamjest-promise-support]
- [tap] has [promise support][tap-promises] too
- [ava] has [promise support][ava-promise] too

[ava]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/ava
[ava-promise]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/ava#promise-support
[tap]: http://www.node-tap.org/
[tap-promises]: http://www.node-tap.org/promises/
[chai]: http://chaijs.com/
[chai-as-promised]: https://github.com/domenic/chai-as-promised
[mocha]: http://mochajs.org/
[hamjest]: https://github.com/rluba/hamjest
[hamjest-promise-support]: https://github.com/rluba/hamjest/wiki/Matcher-documentation#promise-matchers


### What to do?

![the tasks](clock-in-kata-cases.png)

## Solution
### How to run tests?

Open a terminal and type the following
```shell
$ npm test
```

*Before running the tests packages have to be installed:*
```shell
$ npm install
```

Commit message:

[IMP] Add my solution brief explanation

README.md, after:

# Clock-in kata

[![Build Status](https://github.com/manelfera/clock-in-kata/actions/workflows/node.js.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/manelfera/clock-in-kata/actions/workflows/node.js.yml)

Practice writing (tests with) Promises.

## Contents
1. [Description of the exercise](#description-of-the-exercise)
    * [What is the task?](#what-is-the-task)
    * [Where to start?](#where-to-start)
    * [Next Steps](#next-steps)
    * [Promise test libraries](#promise-test-libraries)
    * [What to do?](#what-to-do)

2. [Solution](#solution)
    * [How to run tests?](#how-to-run-test)


## Description of the exercise
### What is the task?

A time tracking tool, that optionally also accepts GPS positions.
Implement the collecting of all GPS data (using promises) and sending to the server using some asynchronous method, like XHR or fetch (using promises too).
Implement a `clockIn()` function that returns a promise and works as the diagrams below show.

Or in other words: the "boss" can determine
1) if only times shall be tracked, without any GPS position recoding (one async action, the XHR) or
2) GPS can be optionally added to the XHR data to be sent, getting GPS is async too,
3) require GPS data to be sent with the XHR

### Where to start?

- start with case 1), the simplest
- mock/stub the actual XHR and build all cases incl. error cases that might happen when sending an XHR
- mock/stub the GPS-data retreival, implement case 2), watch out there are multiple execution paths
- case 3) incl. retrying should be a piece of cake now
- prevent that any test times out, ensure that all Promise-paths are tested

### Next steps

If you want to get more challenging you can go the next steps like this:
- search for a library that makes testing with Promises easier
- use one or many library to find out which one suites best your needs
- mock that getting retreiving GPS data takes very long, trigger a time out
  and report it to the user
- write tests that verify the timing of the things happening, e.g.
  that the clock-in call NEVER starts before the gps-retreival had
  finished

### Promise test libraries

- [mocha] brings built in promise support
- [chai-as-promised] adds promise support to [chai]
- [hamjest] is an assertion library that can be used with any testing framework/lib, and has nice [promise support][hamjest-promise-support]
- [tap] has [promise support][tap-promises] too
- [ava] has [promise support][ava-promise] too

[ava]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/ava
[ava-promise]: https://github.com/sindresorhus/ava#promise-support
[tap]: http://www.node-tap.org/
[tap-promises]: http://www.node-tap.org/promises/
[chai]: http://chaijs.com/
[chai-as-promised]: https://github.com/domenic/chai-as-promised
[mocha]: http://mochajs.org/
[hamjest]: https://github.com/rluba/hamjest
[hamjest-promise-support]: https://github.com/rluba/hamjest/wiki/Matcher-documentation#promise-matchers


### What to do?

![the tasks](clock-in-kata-cases.png)

## Solution
### How to run tests?

*Before running the tests packages have to be installed:*
```shell
$ npm install
``` 

Open a terminal and type the following
```shell
$ npm test
```

### Key points of my solution
The usage of sinon library to mock responses.

### What's missing?
The third test case is not implemented and neither the bonus task.
The usage of async and timeouts is not taken into consideration.

### What can be improved
The use of promises is very poor and it can be improved a lot. This code is 

### Is this code ready to be shipped to production?  
In short, this code is not ready to be deployed to production.  

It just has passing green tests with all the logic stubbed, so there's no communication anywhere.   
 
The methods `isServerAvailable` and `isGpsAvailable` must be renamed to `sendInformationToServer` and `retrieveGpsPosition` and have its logic implemented.
